So on wrote a full show IP interface brief IP addresses look good.
There's the loop back serial interface.
Gigabit 0 wanting to face and gigabit 00 interface
serrata BGP 65000 for neighbor 8 8 to do it for that one remote to transmit system 65000 to neighbor
8 8 DOD 7.1.
We have to configure two relationships to Rodek two and then enable toll 1 1 1 remote to time the system
number sixty five thousand three.
That's the relationship to rodder 3.
And then we can advertise networks so we can advertise all loopback interface.
We can advertise HD 4.0
advertise 8 8 7 0 advertise 12 1 1 0.
It's a show I PBG at the moment shows nothing.
Let's set up the neighbor relationships on Broadway two and three and hopefully that will fix the problem.
Like it wrote a one song brought it to Rada BGP 65000 to neighbor a steady diet for the two remote to
the system is 65000 for neighbor relationship has come up a toll a 7.2 remote autonomous system number
65000 for neighbor relationship has come up.
So show IP BGP summary.
We've got three BGP neighbors configured so that gets rid of three
confetti rodded BGP
65000 and three
Neva toll 1 1 2 remote autonomous system 65000 for neighbor relationships come up so the show IP BGP
summary.
We've got two neighbor relationships can forget.
So at this point a broader one should hopefully have learnt about the rot of for's routes through rodded
two and router 3.
So notice there's the BGP routing table.
We can see the loop back of Radio 4.
It was learnt from 8 8 8.
Took 2 which is Roger 3.
It was also learnt from 12 0 0 2 which is router 3
so one has learnt about this network from two neighbors.
It originated in this autonomous system but has traversed this autonomy system and has traversed this
autonomy system to get to us.
We've got two routes to the Neva So we've got two routes to get to rockfall we can ping Rodda four and
the trace shows us that it goes via a direct to the right to talk to BGP has a complex criteria for
determining the best route.
We're not going to worry too much about that in this course notice though that the best route is being
put into the Oppy table.
It's going via rodded too.
In other words a to ready to talk to so that looks good can we paying the loop back to three.
Yes we can.
What about the lead back of Rodda to.
So I brought a for has learnt about of one show I PBG P we can see the rot for Rotto one we've learnt
from three neighbors 8 8 4 1 8 8 7 1 and 12 took one but one one.
So these two are actually the same Rodda but BGP sees that as two separate neighbor relationships.
He has an interesting one.
Notice this network 8 8 4.0 has been advertised by four routers the local Radhe of four is advertising
the network here Rodda two is advertising it on this link as well as via the serial link and router
three is advertising that network to root for.
In other words this network was advertised by Rodda to to write a 1 then to rodded three and advertised
back to write a full we can see that by looking at the biggest path notice we see three autonomous systems
to get to that route.
But to the best route is via the local router to that destination because the local router is directly
connected to that network.
So it has the best route.
But let's see if we can ping the loopback one.
Yes we can trace to the Lubeck of right of one it's going via this link 8 8 4 1 then 8 8 2 8 to 1 BGP
takes care of routing loops.
So if we didn't have to worry about writing loops in the topology BGP doesn't allow Rantz advertised
by the local Rodda to be advertised back in to the autonomy system.
So there are no rotting loops in the apology and the network is working as expected.
What I want you to see is we can have multiple BGP relationships on a road the road one has to do two
separate autonomous systems Rato for
has three neighbor relationships two or two the same router same autonomous system.
Number one is to a separate autonomous system number BGP.
However will use a complex criteria to determine the best route to a destination.
So to get to one this has been chosen as the best route.
Notice the greater than sign.
But we do have alternate routes to the destination.
So if I ping could ripple one pings succeed trace to one trace goes via 8 8 a toad forward 1.
So in other words via this link what I'll do now is go to write it to and all shut gigabit 001 down
so that a link has gone down.
Notice the BGP relationship has gone down.
So now when we trace to one that wondered wondered one it goes via eight eight to 7.1.
Using this link and if we shut to that serial link down
share to face brief shows us the serial interface Shibe interface serial zeros like one.
Shut it down.
So this should be that actually
interfaces don't
but a can still trace to the loopback of wrote a one
because the traffic is going via toll 1 1 1.
In other words via a router 3 so I'm ready to if I know shunter those interfaces again and interface
gigabit to 0 0 1 shunt IP BGP summary configuration is done show IP BGP.
And I was looking for neighbors but noticed the one neighbor relationship has come up.
So a study to study one is established.
That's to one 8.8 dot 1:56 is active.
We need to wait for this neighbor relationship to come up but notice it's now just come up.
So that's good.
So let's look at that again show IP BGP neighbor noticed the neighbor relationship is now established
and scrolling down 8 8 7 to 2.
He's also established so we have the relationship established from Rotto 3 to a full so on.
Rato for
two neighbor relationships have come up.
We can still Pinga loop back of thought of one at the moment the prompt is still going via this link
because that's the oldest wrote in the writing table again BGP has a complex routing determination algorithm
which you don't need to know for CCMA.
But notice the best route is 12. one but one that one so hence the traffic is going via router three
instead of router 2.
But what this does prove is it proves that we have redundancy in our BGP topology.
If a link goes down or if there's a problem in the ISP traffic it can reroute via an alternate path.
BGP is very powerful.
So let's break this link and what we should see is rockfall automatically sends traffic via router to.
So this link is not directly connected to rockfall
interface it is zero slash one.
Shut it down.
On wrote a full ping 1 1 1 pings succeed.
Trace one 1 one 1.
Notice the traffic is now going via 8 8 forward 1.
So it has transitioned to using this link almost Shaktar that link and to save the configuration of
all my routers again BGP is very powerful.
You need to know the basics of BGP for your exam.